#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nombre que mas alla de que se haya visto que las ratas prefieren refuerzo
 donde enten en grupo lo que se quiere evaluar es si las ratas tiene lacapacidad
 cognitiva para encontrar la solucion optima en una situacion donde el altruismo
 gobierna
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The rats often develop on social groups and studies have demostrated that
 they prefer social reward that along or have a tendence to performed pro-social
 acts over the chance.
 (Moita 2015 and Kalenscher 2015).
 But why all iPD-base studies haven't found high level of reciprocity?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We considering about previous result that the rat don't reach learn iPD
 maybe due to the test box and stimulus contingency aren't adecuate for
 natural expectation.
 As a result, we found that combining iterated Prisioner's Dilemma payoff
 and release reciprocity delay's penalty allow high level of reciprocal
 altruism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Material and Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Subjects and Housing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Two group of long-Evans rats (Charles Rivers....) were used.
 Twelves males were used like subjects and six (Nstooge=6) identical rats
 like oponentes.
 At weaning time all subject were housed in group of two rats per cage to
 addressing social interaction and each stooge in single individual cage.
 We had 12 cage altogether.
 All rats were food deprivated schedule, and to subject rats dialy food
 intake was restricted to keep animals at between 90-95% of free feeding
 body weight and to stooge rats at between 80-85% of free feeding body weight.
 The housing room had an average temperature of 22°C and 12:12h light:dark
 cycle on at 20:00 hours.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We used two opposite standard operant chamber by Med-Association (Product
 ENV-008) in such manner that each rats can make olfactory and eye contact
 through metal windows (FIGURA 1 CAJAS).
 Each standard chamber was equiped with two side by side lever and two stimulus
 light over each lever and a feeder in the center.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Experimental Setup
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Experimental Design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
General Task Design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Typical Trial Structure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
